Hi, everybody.
Let's get started.
I'm Glenn Bulycz on the QuickTime team.
You're in
Advanced QuickTime Interactivity.
One note, a housekeeping note,
the feedback forum for QuickTime,
ever popular, has been moved,
not to Cupertino, but to the Marina Room.
So our speaker today really
doesn't need an introduction.
In the QuickTime world,
Michael Shaff's done some amazing work
and is recognized as one of the leaders
in delivering and helping developers
create applications and then also
helping content folks put out the most
interesting interactive content there is.
You know,
he's the only person here who got special
dispensation on the shoe requirement,
and so he's allowed to
wear special sneakers.
So I'll let him get started,
and if we could keep the
questions till the end.
And during the Q&A,
if you would please use the
microphones and tell us,
you know,
your name and what company you're with,
and speak really closely to the
microphone so that the translators
can accurately translate your question
and Michael can answer appropriately.
Thanks, Michael.
Am I loud enough back there?
Good.
Excellente.
So we are going to be talking about
QuickTime Interactivity today,
and what advanced means,
I've come to realize,
is a bit of a range, shall we say.
So I'm actually going to start
off maybe not quite advanced,
and we're going to work
our way over to there.
All right.
So I'm going to start off with the tool.
I use a whole set of tools, I should say.
But the tool that I use to
integrate media is LiveStage Pro.
The current version 4.1 is
a personal favorite of mine.
And it's a personal favorite
of mine for many reasons,
but I personally am somewhat lazy.
So I really hate to work
hard on something that I've
done many times before.
Probably many of you are the same way.
And so Totally Hip got
together and they thought,
well, how can we make developing
QuickTime Interactivity easier,
but still let people like me do all
sorts of strange and crazy things to it?
And the idea came about to
do what we call FastTracks.
And FastTracks allow you to
create advanced interactivity,
but not have to be a rocket scientist,
not have to be a gearhead
or a script monster.
And let me show you some of this stuff.
I'm going to start off by
creating a skin FastTrack.
And I can do that a couple of ways.
I can click on this bar right over
here that will bring up an editor
for doing work with skin FastTracks.
And automatically, QuickTime, excuse me,
QuickTime, LiveStage Pro has already
put in some default media.
Not some of my personal favorite media,
so I'm going to bring
in some other media.
I've got special media
just for this event,
the WWDC theme down here.
And you'll notice I have a folder
down in my library window called Skin.
Now,
there's a couple ways I could do this.
I could bring in my media
one piece at a time,
and I can say, well,
is this a window shape?
Nope.
Is it a drag area?
Is it my skin background?
Yes, definitely.
And right away it gets replaced.
Or I could bring in the entire folder.
FastTrack for Skins has a close button.
It's very valuable to put a close
button if you're going to use a skin.
No close button, confused users.
Confused users are rarely happy.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going
to grab onto this whole skin folder.
I'm going to bring it over here,
and I'm going to drop.
And poof,
everything gets swapped out for me.
I now have a new close button.
I'll grab that and drop it over here.
And I've got a new full screen button.
I'll grab that.
Notice the stage kind
of rolls around for me.
And you'll notice that
as I move things around,
there's a lot of information
about what's going on.
And these are new features
to Live Stage Pro version 4.
We thought, go figure,
designers would like to have this
information rather than have to
calculate it out on their calculator.
So I'm going to zoom out.
And a lot of these instructions are just
like you would expect from Photoshop.
If I hold down my space bar,
I get this kind of what
I call an active scrubber.
And just like in Photoshop,
if I hold down my option key,
I can do the toggle
between zoom in and out.
We've tried to make the tool as
much like the tools that you're
already using as possible.
Reason?
We don't want you to work in the tool.
We want you to be able to
do the work in the tool.
any harder than you have to.
There's a lot of space in
QuickTime interactivity.
Let's focus in on the things that
you bring to the table that are
unique and not have you jumping
through all types of new hoops.
So once I've done this,
I can close that out and
I can see my stage over here.
I'm going to zoom out
on that one as well.
"Scrub around and zoom back out.
Now that's good.
That's a help.
But what about the rest of the
stuff that I may want to do?
Well, hey, someone took away my outline."
That's bad, because amongst the many
things that I am is forgetful.
I'll be able to handle it,
but we might skip a point
and I might come back.
What I'm going to do here is I'm
going to grab another FastTrack,
this one dealing with
linear media control.
I could either create it from here,
a menu, and I can come on here and say,
it's going to let me do a
playback controls fast track.
Believe it or not,
I have used the application,
but we have built in a lot of redundancy.
So there are different ways of
working with Live Stage Pro,
just as there are different
ways of dealing with QuickTime.
So I've created a linear control that has
has beginning, go back to the beginning,
rewind, stop, play, fast forward and end,
and all those are pre-scripted for you.
So if I look at my stage,
I can grab onto my linear
controller and drag it around.
Or as I showed you somewhat prematurely,
I can just grab onto a control
and move it around in here,
and it will automatically
resize the track for me.
Once I've done that,
I'm going to bring in some,
not surprisingly,
some media that I'm able to play.
So I'm going to find some video.
And then I'm going to
bring out the HIP bot.
He's brought out quite a lot.
So I drag him on the stage.
And again,
you can see all these annotations.
Now,
I'm going to do something that I've done
myself accidentally a number of times.
Are those my outlines?
Oh, Jim, you are a savior.
Thank you very much.
So I bring back in a close button
and I'm going to try this out.
So I press the play, excuse me,
I press the preview, which does a preview
inside of Live Stage Pro.
And you can see I can
drag this skin around.
And now I go over and I click
on the close button and
Nothing is happening.
And I've done this,
I can't tell you how many
times I've done this wrong.
And the reason is that my drag region,
the region that allows
me to drag the window,
is a key component to a skin.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to turn on the stage,
show me where that drag area is.
And you can see it's
right here at the top,
right where I've put my close button.
So first mistake that,
or first thing you want to check for is
when you're placing your controls is,
are they in an area that the
window is going to be dragged from?
If so, move them,
because they won't work.
So I'm going to grab this,
I'm going to put this right
over here and drop it.
I'm not going to do too much aligning
because I bet you folks believe
that I can align things and you
don't want to watch me doing it.
So once I've done that,
let's do another preview.
And it builds that back up again.
And in a moment, I can both drag and,
of course, I can close.
But I don't actually
want to close quite yet.
I'm going to use these buttons
just to prove that it can be done.
Sorry Ryan,
I didn't max that out before you told me.
Okay, so I've got these all the way
up and you can see these work.
Just like they should.
And that close button works.
Now that would be great,
except for one thing.
Let's say that I was trying
to learn the product.
I actually wanted to understand
not only how the product worked,
but I wanted to learn how
to do this stuff myself.
What we've enabled you to do is click on
a fast track and ask it to be decompiled.
Now no bits are going to
go flying off the screen,
so no one has to go running in any panic.
And notice it changed
my fast track down here.
from one color to another.
And it also changed its icon over here to
show me that this is now a sprite track.
We'll be talking some more about
the timeline on the bottom.
When I open that up,
I can see each one of these controls
and exactly how they were scripted.
So, for instance,
if I want to know how we're
doing the fast-forward,
I can just click on it,
take a look at the script,
and find out that on mouse
down I'm doing this script.
I'm not going to focus on this
particular script right now.
I'm going to just focus on the fact
that you can use the product at a
high level for building fast tracks,
and we have a number of features
that can be built just in
this drag-and-drop fashion.
And then once you get
comfortable with them,
you can dive in and learn from them,
or you can also use them as the basis
for extensions that you're going to do.
And far from just being
basics for beginners,
these are great bases for cutting
down your time in production.
And I'll be showing some other methods
that we've built into Live Stage Pro for
making things faster and easier.
As I've oftentimes told Steve,
Steve Israelson being the lead
architect of Live Stage Pro,
we want Live Stage Pro to
drive like a sports car,
like that neat BMW car.
We don't want it actually to drive
like one of those big diesel trucks.
All right, so I've showed linear
media and fast tracks.
A lot of new features
came in on Live Stage 4.1,
and I would be remiss if I did not
tell you that there is a special
discount for all of you folks out there
and any attendees of this session.
Guy calculated it out.
I think it's a 60% discount or
some odd from the list price.
What I'm going to do is show some of the
new VR features inside of Live Stage Pro.
I'm going to grab on to,
let's do this cubic right over here.
I'm going to drag and drop that.
Actually, I'm going to kill that,
and I'm going to turn off a fixed stage.
There's two different ways of viewing
the stage in my mind in Live Stage Pro.
You can have it as a fixed stage,
in which case if you have already
designed out your skin and you know
exactly what the sizing is going to be,
you can enter that sizing right
in here and it's all locked down.
Handy.
But oftentimes you want the flexibility
of having a dynamic stage where you can
just move things around freely and the
stage will automatically adjust for you.
I like dynamic things,
so I'm going to turn off fixed stage.
So I've turned off fixed size,
and I don't want an
extra background put in,
so I'm going to turn that off as well.
I'm going to grab on to this cubic,
and I'm going to drop it in there.
Okay, we've got a cubic.
It marks down in the timeline
that it is a... A VR,
and I have one node in that,
and I can go out here
and stretch its duration.
Which occasionally you want to do if
you're trying to match it up to audio
that's going to be in the background?
I'm going to open it up and we have a
brand new VR editor with more features
than I could tell you in several hours.
So I'm going to focus in on some
of what I believe are the keys.
I love a number of the
stitchers that are out there.
However, when I create VR,
it's not always going to be used
the same way each and every project.
Sometimes I'll want it to be one way on
one project and another way on another,
but I'm not going to want
to go back to the original
stitcher and redo all that work.
I love a number of the
stitchers that are out there.
However, when I create VR,
it's not always going to be used
the same way each and every project.
Sometimes I'll want it to be one way on
one project and another way on another,
but I'm not going to want
to go back to the original
stitcher and redo all that work.
I love a number of the
stitchers that are out there.
However, when I create VR,
it's not always going to be used
the same way each and every project.
Sometimes I'll want it to be one way on
one project and another way on another,
but I'm not going to want
to go back to the original
stitcher and redo all that work.
even though the original stitcher
put it out in a very different view.
The next thing that we wanted to
be able to do was create hotspots
inside a VR so that you could have a
beautiful stitching but you could put
new hot spots based on the particular
project that you needed to get done.
So I'm going to switch over to hotspots.
This particular VR already
has a number of hotspots,
and you can see them right up here.
They have both IDs and names.
The IDs can be very helpful
when you're scripting.
You can enable and disable them.
And the names,
I'm partial to words myself,
so I like to be able to see
that and work at that level.
I can also set the cursors
that are associated with,
excuse me, the cursors that are set from
that hotspot when I mouse over.
I'm going to do a turtle for mouse over.
I'm going to leave the other two alone.
So now I'm going to create a new hotspot.
I'm going to look around over here.
And I'm going to create my
hotspot right over here.
I have different tools
that I can do that.
I'm going to create
just a simple rectangle.
That right there.
And that pretty much obscured
whatever was behind it.
So I'm going to actually
change the opacity so I can
see better my actual content.
Once I've done that,
I'm going to change the type of
action associated with that hotspot.
I've got different actions that I can do.
I can link to another node.
There's only one node
in this VR right now.
So I'm not going to do that.
I can do a go-to URL,
which will either trigger a
browser or trigger a new movie,
or the ever-favorite blob,
which is not a 1950s movie,
but rather the ability to have arbitrary
actions associated with a spot.
I'm actually going to
do a go-to URL here.
And notice, again, I guess we could call
LiveStage Pro the slacker aid,
codependent maybe.
I hate to look things up,
but I oftentimes... forget syntax.
So we've got all the different syntax
for go-to URL right here for you.
And I'm going to choose
one for a browser.
And I don't know,
does everybody want to watch me type?
No raising hands.
So I'm going to skip
actually typing in a URL.
And you folks will all trust me that
that will actually do the right thing.
I'm going to close that up for a moment.
And then what I'm going to do, it,
whoops,
didn't actually mean to close that up.
I'm going to do some fast
tracks associated with VR.
Now this stuff, what I'm about to show,
these fast tracks, this,
just probably eight months ago,
would have been advanced
QuickTime Interactivity.
It would have been stuff that we would
have gotten deeply in the scripting of.
How do you actually do that?
Not these first ones,
which are just controls.
I'm going to say, yes,
I would like some new controls.
Same type of thing here.
I can get new controls.
I'm going to bring in some new media.
Again, the folders can be used in
order to get production.
I'm going to grab onto a pan left folder.
I can do them one at a time.
Well, that's the down image.
This is the up image.
This is the over image.
Or I can click on my control and I can
grab onto a folder full of images,
in this case, Pan Right.
Just drag it and drop it and it does
all three of them for me at once.
So I've got those two out there,
and I'm going to turn off,
actually I want tilt up
and down to be there.
I actually want all of them to be there,
so I'll just leave them alone.
Ordinarily in a real project course,
I would go through and replace all
these so they have the same media,
but I'm not going to do that right now.
So at that point, I have my VR,
and I have my VR controls.
So if I preview this.
I can tilt up, I can pan around,
and of course I still
have my old controller.
We have the ability to set
just about anything you could
ever want to set in QuickTime,
and then some.
So I'm going to go through,
I'm going to say, okay,
leave that QTBR controller there.
What I'm going to do is
grab that same skin track.
Creating a new skin track.
You can see my VR right there.
I'm going to go grab it, drop it, poof.
And now I can adjust my VR.
I can grab onto my FastTracks.
So I can use all of this.
Notice I've done no scripting, which,
if you've been to some
of my previous talks,
is impressive.
So I grabbed this and
I dragged this stuff around.
Everything's been drag
and drop to this time.
And now, because...
I'm doing a demo.
I want to actually do something
a little bit beyond that.
I'm going to go out and create a compass
that will follow my movements around.
So I do that and it asks me quite
politely whether I really want to do
this and I feel certain that I do.
And automatically I get a new compass.
Now the reason why we're always
supplying default media is because we
want to encourage people to experiment.
Interactive QuickTime has so many
different ways of doing things that
it's valuable to do experimentation.
It is, shall we say,
a cultural experience to do
this kind of experimentation.
And we don't want you to
have to go looking for media
just because you need media.
We're going to pop it right in
there and then if you have media,
you're certainly welcome to replace it.
In this case,
I'm going to leave this media alone.
The next piece of functionality
has been oftentimes requested by users.
We want to make a map off
to the side of our VR,
and we want a few things.
We want to be able to
put nodes on that map.
So if you click on the map,
they'll go right to that node.
And we also want to be able to have some
compass indication right on those nodes.
Now, if I have one node,
I have a very boring map.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to bring in a second node,
and I'm going to actually
create a multi-node right
inside of Live Stage Pro.
You were never able to do this before.
Before,
if I wanted to create a multi-node,
I had to go back to my
VR authoring environment,
create a multi-node, export it,
come back over to Live Stage Pro,
look at it,
and see that everything works.
Now that's gotten a lot easier.
All I have to do is
come over to my library.
This, by the way, is my library window.
We'll be talking some more
about that a little bit later.
And I'm going to grab an object movie.
Now, an object movie is going to
be combined with a cubic movie
to create a heterogeneous
So I drag this over and it says,
"Can't drop it there.
Nope, can't drop it there,
but there you can drop it." So I drop it.
Notice that all of my fast tracks
automatically adjusted their
durations because I had added this in.
It's a big drag for users when they
get everything set up and they have
their controller set at a duration
of one second and they bring in
their three-minute video and poof,
the controller lasts for one
second and then it's gone.
Which is wonderful functionality
if you want to use it,
but if you don't,
it can be awfully disconcerting
when your controller disappears.
So I've brought that in.
I'm going to open my window back up.
Okay.
And notice I was able to switch
between the different nodes.
I can also do that with a menu.
I'm going to switch back over to my cubic
and now back over to my object movie.
I can switch back and
forth and work with cubics,
cylinders, or objects,
even multi-state objects,
which we'll be talking about some,
all inside of the same editor
without any fuss or muss.
Now,
you'll have to stretch your imagination
just slightly because I'm going
to be having a map which is going
to point off to this object movie.
I'm going to create a new map fast track.
This is okay.
Once again,
we've popped in some media for you.
I don't know where this actually is,
this map.
It pops up often.
I'm going to place it.
Now again, much like Photoshop,
if I switch to my resize tool,
which Guy tells me is the letter T,
which matches up with the key
that would be used in Photoshop,
I don't actually use that
particular key in Photoshop,
so I never know that.
And now if I hold down my Shift key,
it will constrain my aspect ratio.
So I've adjusted my map.
I'm going to place it.
And now I've got two nodes.
I have, and I click on it,
and drop this any place on my map.
That node represents the node
associated with the cubic,
and this node over here is
associated with my object.
Ordinarily, of course,
if we were building a map like this,
they would all be
similar kinds of things.
So you may ask,
why did you grab the hip-hot movie then?
And I wouldn't really have a good answer,
except I like the hip-hot object.
All right.
Now, those are both pretty cool
pieces of functionality.
I've got my map.
I've got a compass.
Let's take a look at this.
Drag that around.
I look around.
My compass is moving right over here.
It looks like I should have set
the transparency mode on that.
And you'll notice that also the
node right over here is indicating
where I'm looking as well.
I can set the north spot on
this VR so that north is north.
And now if I click on this node,
I automatically go to my object,
and now I have completely different
type of media in the same space.
That's cool.
I like that.
Close that up.
Sound, spatial sound.
It's been done.
It's somewhat tricky to do
strictly on a scripting basis.
Pretty fun to decompile and
take a look at what we've done
to actually implement that.
But we've wanted to make
spatial sound easy for you.
Click on Sounds Fast Track.
It's going to create a new one.
It's done it.
Now I don't have any sounds in
my sound list at this point,
so I'm going to use my
handy-dandy library.
I'm going to close some of
these things out since I have
less screen space than usual.
Here's my sound.
And I'm going to bring in two
different kinds of sounds.
The first kind of sound I'm
going to bring is actually
going to be a MIDI soundtrack,
and I'm going to use
that as my ambient sound.
So this is a sound that's
not gradual or sudden.
It's non-directional.
I always want it to be playing.
I could adjust the volume if I wanted to.
I'm going to drop it down a little bit
so it doesn't overpower everything.
And plop that right there.
And now since it's non-directional,
there are no spatial components to this.
The next sound I'm going to want to do,
and all of your cell phones
are turned off right now,
right?
The next sound I'm going to want
to do is this cell phone ring.
And cell phones can be non-directional
when you're at a place like this and
everybody's cell phone is going off,
but I actually want them
to be at a specific place.
I'm going to pop over to my cubic,
and I want my cell phone to be
associated with this heavenly
statue right over here.
My bad.
I should have created my
soundtrack in my cubic,
and I didn't do that.
So, without further ado,
I'm going to use my timeline to kill.
Remember,
no electrons were hurt while I do this.
I'm now killing my soundtrack
and opening back up again.
I wanted to be in my cubic when
I was having this experience,
so I created a new sound fast track.
And yes, as you just saw,
you can have different sound,
spatial sound associated
with different media.
Once I do that, I'm going to go back out
and grab my in-flight,
switch that back to non-directional,
come over to my cell phone,
drag and drop.
Now, I want to be right here
when this sound happens.
So, I'm going to grab this.
I'm going to turn it to
where I'm currently facing.
This arrow indicates where I'm facing.
And I'm going to spread this out.
I can set the extent of the sound.
When am I going to
start to hear the sound?
I can also set it how
much tilt do I need.
Well, I want it to always happen,
so I'm going to stretch that tilt
over the entire extent of the movie.
So once I've done that,
I'm going to change that
from gradual to sudden.
And now I'm going to preview that.
Okay, first we can hear the,
if you listen very closely, yes,
the MIDI that was non-directional.
So as I look around here,
I'm getting this lovely media experience.
I'm able to have my media map
show me where I'm pointing.
And now when I come across here,
I can be interrupted by a cell
phone just like real life.
You can't get any more
immersive than that.
All right.
Now, I could dive down into the debugger,
but that would be the old, brutal,
advanced mic.
But we're going to-- we'll get there.
OK, so we're going to close that up.
So we saw a lot of advanced
functionality in VR.
And except for showing
that I could decompile,
I've done absolutely no scripting.
That does not mean, however,
that Live Stage Pro doesn't
have scripting chops.
It definitely does.
And in our next couple of pieces,
I'm going to showcase a couple,
you can see this.
By the way, before I show those,
I wanted to show a really lovely piece.
I just love this piece.
Notice we have a skin.
We have a cylinder VR that
we can look around.
We've got controls that we're
able to roll over and move around.
And we have a map that we're
able to check things out.
All of this functionality is
now pretty much drag and drop.
That's pretty impressive.
Which goes to show that human beings are
getting caught up with sooner or later.
I guess there's a new movie
coming out that's going to show us
that the machines will rise too.
So I'm going to open up Superfluid and
we'll be talking more about this piece.
We're actually in a few
moments going to start to look
underneath the hood of things.
A little more detail at what is
involved in hardcore advanced.
And when I pop in here,
we have really many of the same things.
I've got a controller
that I can move around.
I have a volume slider.
We have behaviors that allow you
to create this kind of a slider
without any scripting knowledge.
And if I click on one of these pieces...
It automatically loads in the
VR and now is panning around.
This system is actually set up to pay
attention to how much activity I'm doing.
Notice when I clicked on this,
the media stopped and
now I can control it.
But the idea was that
if the user's not doing,
the media gets progressively
more psychedelic.
And that was the intention of the band.
Sometimes you want to just sit
back and chill to what's going on.
And as you can imagine,
if I go full screen on this,
I put the wrong version on this one.
A real full screen would
actually go full screen,
but this will do since I have
a very large monitor here.
Notice that as I haven't done anything,
the media is now getting
more and more excited.
It's adjusting the
FOV or the field of view.
It's doing a pan.
And as I move around,
it gives me control.
A lot of what advanced
QuickTime Interactivity is about is
about paying attention to the user.
If I switch over to the finder,
what happened to my movie?
It shrunk itself down.
When I come back to the media, poof,
it brings itself back to life.
See,
we were thinking about the doc and the
expose stuff just along with Steve.
So the same type of control that you
would expect from a QuickTime experience.
I can drag this around and play with it.
Some things you might not expect from VR:
the ability to change its graphics mode.
So now I have a somewhat
more psychedelic experience.
Let's go see Hollywood Friends.
We all have friends in Hollywood, right?
And I can, of course,
turn these things off.
All of a sudden I went,
did I go to an X-rated one?
I was pretty sure I didn't,
but let's go to Monsoon because
that's a little less controversial.
And the idea that the band really wanted
to get across here was this kind of
kaleidoscope between music and space.
And one of the ways that we were
able to capture that was to use
cubics in order to encase this.
Notice it's now realized that, hey,
Mike's talking, so it's going to go off
and start to entertain you.
But we also realized that we
could express some philosophical
points on this media,
such as the ability to feel fenced in.
So you notice we've dropped
an overlay over the entire UI.
Still working.
And once again,
I can be in control or the
movie can be in control.
And just in case you want to know
whether you can do two overlays at once,
yes, indeed you can.
Or I can reset these.
Now, overlays and all the rest
of this media is great,
but if you have to download all
of the media associated with
superfluid in one very long push,
it's going to be very unpleasant.
So,
we've done a couple of things on this.
One, those overlays,
and there are a number of them here,
are all dynamically loaded.
QuickTime, starting with version 6,
introduced the ability to
dynamically load sprite images.
In addition to all the other
wonderful things that sprites could
already be getting their media from,
such as video tracks or flash tracks
or even URLs that you've hard-coded,
now we can actually
dynamically load those in.
So, all of the media associated with the
overlays are loaded on user request only,
and then cached so that...
if I ask for it once,
I don't have to go back and
reload it a second time.
And...
I think that's all I want
to say about Superfluid.
A very fun piece.
Oh.
One last thing I wanted to say.
Now, Dee hates this feature,
so I will point that out right away,
but I happen to love it.
The idea is that when
I am closing something,
I don't necessarily want,
as a content creator, just to let,
if you'll excuse the expression,
let the user just vanish.
So in this case,
what we do is we fade out the music,
show a logo, and once the music is
all the way faded out,
poof, the movie goes away.
All right, now this piece,
since I've been talking
about what Guy doesn't like,
this is some of the
stuff that Guy does like.
Guy was very involved with this piece.
I think this, I don't know,
it was obviously done for Acura,
but I don't know what
I'm going to show you how a
company actually did this.
But you'll notice there's a
number of hot spots around.
And as I move around,
I can select one of them.
I'm going to select on the dashboard.
I do a transition.
I pop up new media.
The Acura Bose music system in the
TL Type S includes AM/FM stereo,
a cassette player,
and a six-disc in-dash CD changer.
The user is able to move things around,
still know where they come from.
Notice the lines that are indicating
where this feature comes from.
Select further points inside of my VR.
Did I say this was all
created with Live Stage Pro,
by the way?
I'm supposed to say that a certain
number of times per half an hour.
And I can do all the types of
adjustments that you'd like to
do right as they are relevant.
And there was a wonderful
talk given here yesterday by
Laurie Schwartz and Mark Sando.
Mark pointed out that each of
these little details in and of
themselves is not rocket science.
It's not incredible.
But it's the attention to those details
that makes the experience down here
in the gut feel something immersive,
something unique, something that you want
to get involved with.
And as an anecdotal evidence,
because I'm not actually able to
release the actual statistics,
we did a series of studies
for retention on these things.
And I think that's what we're
going to see in the future.
And I think it's going
to be a huge challenge.
But we're going to see how much
activity did people do when they were
actually using these environments.
And you would be staggered by
the amount of time that people
actually spend on these if they're
actually able to interact with them.
And that includes straight-out video.
Just putting it in a skin
already helped on user retention.
Having all the branding be consistent
helped them keep on message.
Then if they were able to look at
background information and other things,
I think it's going to
be a huge challenge.
But I think it's going
to be a huge challenge.
[Transcript missing]
I mentioned that LiveStage
Pro now works with multi-state VR.
Does everybody know
what multi-state VR is?
You are so much ahead of me, John.
I didn't know what it was.
I looked at this thing and went,
multi-state VR, that means what?
Well, let's take a look at what it means.
Nice VR.
Object movie,
I can roll it back and forth,
I can tilt it.
That's nice.
Ah, another state.
Aha, a third state.
A wonderful piece of functionality.
All in the same space,
all in the same media container.
The ability to have the same
object at different states.
Not a big surprise.
I don't know why I didn't figure it out.
So how do we do that?
Let's go out and take a
look at what Guy has done.
I have over here a Sprite track.
And notice as I pull this up,
some people in the back of the
rows are happy and some people
who are worried that I'm going to
pull out the old scripting monster
start to lean back in their seats.
And indeed, you're right.
So I've clicked on this and I can see
the different tracks that I've got.
This one here named Sprite
1 with an untitled sample,
shame on you, Guy.
I'm going to open this up and I'm going
to first change this to be a nice name,
State Modifiers.
Now, does anyone know why I am -- well,
actually,
I'm not allowed to ask you because
you have to go up to the microphone.
The reason I am so fastidious
about naming these things with real
names is because invariably some
amount of time goes by and then
the content owner either calls me
up or sends me an email and says,
"I want you to change or extend
or fix something that has a
bug." And I look at it and if
I haven't put in reasonable names,
then I have to hunt
around for what I've done.
I don't like to do that.
And I'm betting you don't
like to do that either.
So I'm encouraging you all to
use names in order to make your
projects easier to understand.
So what have we here?
We've got digits 1, digit 2, and digit 3.
Very interestingly named.
And if I look at mouse clicked, aha,
everybody knew I was going
to pull out the old script.
Now notice some of the nice functionality
we've gotten for is the ability to get
more screen space when you need it.
Right over here,
Guy hasn't put in any comments,
and I can bet that Guy's going
to punch me several times after
making fun of him so many times.
But I'm going to put a comment over here,
and that is, if the state is not current,
and you'll notice that if
I had all of this typing...
You want me to change the color?
I will certainly do that,
but let me show you this first.
If I had it in the original way,
I would not be able to see that content,
and I would get to get scrollbar happy.
Now, I don't like scrollbar happy,
so I close these things
off as appropriate,
and then I'm able to not see it,
but I can because I can
go over to my preferences.
It's just in like the last few
months that I don't do the old
OS 9 thing and come over here.
And I can come over here and say Editor.
And I can change all of these things.
So that is Comments.
And notice its color is gray.
And I can come over here and say, well,
let's make it orange and kind of bright.
And notice my, oh,
that's a bad choice because it happens
to also be similar to our constants.
But I could change the color
of my constants as well.
So once I've done that,
what he's doing here is he's
finding out the current view state.
And then he is setting the image index.
He's not doing it by name.
He's setting the image index by number.
And if this were me,
Boy, am I in trouble,
because he's bigger than me.
I would say, view one on.
And what I would do is come right
over here and put this dollar sign,
which indicates that it
is part of a definition.
And I would say, view one--
View 1 underscore on.
And now I would be using a
symbolic reference to my image.
Now there's two advantages to this.
The first advantage is the
one I've already mentioned,
that projects are easier to work with.
The second advantage may be
a little less noticeable.
Let's say that my graphic artist says,
you know, I don't like that background.
I'm going to put in a new background
and I want you to put it right here.
And I drop this in.
If I've hard-coded my index,
if these numbers change,
my project breaks.
If, on the other hand, I do them by name,
then no matter if I take this one
and pull it all the way back here,
it still works.
I like things that work.
All right,
so we've taken a look at VR view states.
Oh, I should mention one other thing.
A common question that we get is,
are those actually variable at runtime,
those constants that we put out?
And as the word indicates, constant, no,
they're not.
What happens is we take
a look at the name,
we find out what that number is,
and that's the actual
value that goes out there.
I won't name any names,
but I did get a very amusing email
from somebody in New Zealand,
a former QuickTime engineer,
who couldn't understand why he was
not able to change this variable,
and I was amused.
But I'm amused easily.
Okay,
now I want to show the same persons,
to give you some indication
of who that might be,
a tool that I use a
lot with LiveStage Pro.
Which is Deliverator.
Deliverator.
And what I use Deliverator
for is working with media that
I'm going to actually deploy.
I'm going to take an original
exported from LiveStage movie,
I'm going to drop it on Deliverator,
and it opens up two windows.
The first window is the
actual movie content.
This piece, by the way, was shot,
the VR was shot by Janie Fitzgerald,
and the skin,
which ordinarily would be a skin.
Except in this environment.
Was done by Robert West.
And in here, I am able to do a number
of amazing things.
Useful amazing things.
Time saving amazing things.
What I'm able to do is simulate what the
different download rates would be like.
Now, right now,
we've got a 100-base intranet,
and things are good.
John Alper was downloading something,
and he said various expletives that I'm
not allowed to repeat on this microphone,
but they were all happy expletives.
But most people still today
have this kind of experience.
Remember, this was the original output
from Live Stage Pro Movie.
Yes, that is a very nice blue cube.
Yep, okay, we're loading.
You'll notice it shows
the percent of the movie,
how much K has been downloaded,
and the number of seconds this
person has endured this experience.
Ah, I have a blurry VR.
Very nice.
Okay, I've, oh, yeah,
I have a piece of good VR coming in here.
I'm 93K into this,
and I'm seeing a lot of blur.
I'm not a very happy user.
This is not the kind of
QuickTime interactive experience
that we really want to have.
What we want to have is an experience
in which the preview track comes in,
and that's the reason it's blurry.
It's not because of QuickTime.
It's that in order to
get a fast download,
QuickTime supports the ability to
have a preview track of your VR.
Notice, I'm 190K into this thing,
and I'm still not seeing any
of those beautiful controls
that Robert West did for us.
Where are they?
Well,
that brings us to our second window.
This window over here is our media map.
It shows every block of media out there.
So I can come over here.
I thought my machine crashed.
I almost passed out.
I see my movie resource up here.
I see a whole lot of free space and
some very fine QuickTime engineer
is going to explain to me why that
free space is there and how I can
get rid of it totally someday.
But that day is probably not right now.
I can see that I'm getting
some VR samples out here and if
I come all the way down here,
why look, there are my controls.
But they're at the very end of the file.
Do I want them to be
at the end of the file?
No.
I want them to be coming in
exactly when I want them to.
Now Flash supports the ability to say,
well, you can have it any way you
want as long as it's either
back to front or front to back.
Which way do you want?
Not so in QuickTime.
In QuickTime I can decide exactly
where I want that media to come in.
I like to call it choreographing
the media arrival.
Now there are a few things more
dull than watching Mike drag
around blocks of media.
But I'm going to show you.
How I can do it.
Yes, there is a block of media moving,
and now I'm going to drop
it right down over here.
And it wouldn't let me.
It actually showed me on the little hand,
but I was not paying attention.
So the little hand's saying, yes,
I can drop it there, and once I do it,
it moves it for me.
Now, that piece of media will be
loaded at that particular time,
excuse me, at that particular position
in the actual file.
Rather than,
everybody want to see my address book?
I'm going to close that one out,
and I'm going to show what I did
in order to deploy this media.
Pop it back over to the Deliverator.
Again, I have the media open.
I'm going to,
we'll leave it actually at a dual, no,
I'll put it back down onto 33 to be fair.
And now I'm going to simulate
what that experience would be like
having moved my media blocks around.
After just 3.9% or so,
I get my preview track.
I have now my skin.
So I have my user only 8% into
the movie already has full
context as to what's going on,
and those things already work.
That's pretty hot.
In terms of control over
your deployment media,
Deliverator is an awesome tool.
So if you haven't checked into it
and you have web-based delivery,
I highly recommend it.
And one additional
feature I want to mention,
but I was too much of a coward to demo,
is the ability to work with locked
content across multiple people.
So for instance,
Guy and I have done projects together,
and he's in Vancouver,
and I'm in Los Angeles.
Los Angeles.
I'm in La Honda,
and if he wants to pass me
media that is copy-protected,
ordinarily that couldn't be done
because once it's copy-protected,
it's pow.
Deliverator allows you to do a
challenge and response so that you can
actually work with that copy-protected
media across multiple people.
Tremendous tool, doing a lot of things.
If you use it,
please give John Summers feedback
on how to make it better.
It is an onward and upward tool.
Does anyone like that Deliverator tool?
I'm pretty damn impressed.
Okay, so right down here I've got
Apple Scripts structure.
And what I want to show here is the
fact that Live Stage Pro in version 4
internalized the need for all of you to
be able to create automated projects.
In the boom days,
when all of us were making money,
in the boom days,
which will come back again someday,
I did what I called boutique wear.
I could spend all the time I wanted
working on something because
it was supposed to be a one-of.
Now,
when I actually need to make some money,
I need to be able to make something and
use that template over and over again.
And we have the ability to do that.
If you create... If you create
a project in Live Stage Pro,
you can record every step you do.
You can then go back in and do
any editing that you want to do.
And then you can create,
if you would like,
and I'm sure you'll want to,
you create a droplet that
will give you the ability.
First, I need to locate this droplet.
I only really need to do this once.
And go to my desktop.
There is my template.
I choose that.
And now what I'm going to do
is I'm going to take some media
I'm going to do this from
media where I know where it is.
I'm going to grab a couple of videos.
I'll grab three videos.
I'm going to drag it onto my droplet.
It goes off very dutifully.
Notice it's doing all
the adjustments for me.
It's processing that.
It's output it.
It's doing the next piece.
Cha-ching.
We like that.
Less caffeine, more money.
Okay, and where did those things go?
Well, they're right over here.
All in a folder, neatly output for me,
and ready to go.
That's cool.
Zoom in right along.
One of perhaps-- what time am I over?
I looked at that and said, "Uh-oh.
If I have four minutes,
I'm in deep guano." One of my favorite
aspects of QuickTime is the fact that
it supports third-party components.
And don't get me wrong,
the folks at Apple are some
of the brightest and most
enthusiastic that I've ever met.
However,
they don't have every idea out there
and they don't have the ability to use
every engineering dollar that Apple has.
And that means that third parties
need a way of being able to
extend QuickTime in a nice,
robust way.
Apple's done this.
They've created a
component download program,
and this allows somebody to
develop a component that does,
let's say, 3D,
and allows them to deploy this
actually on Apple's servers so
that when a user hits some of their
content in a QuickTime environment,
it will go out to the Apple server,
grab onto that component,
and download it.
And then the media can be used.
Now, I'd like to say that that's
a very easy thing to author.
And I would like to say that.
And it is pretty easy,
but it's not super easy.
And so I want to show actually
how that can be done because I was
scratching my head for a while,
and I figured maybe you folks are too.
The first thing that I do is
I create what I call a gate movie.
Let me first go cripple my player.
So I need to quit out of this.
I'm going to remove the component
[Transcript missing]
And now,
since my QuickTime has not been launched,
when I go back into it,
it won't know anything about Axel 3D.
And when I launched this gate movie,
it says, hey, the component is missing.
Should I download it?
By all means, please do.
It goes out there and
after a moment or two,
thank goodness for networks.
Chugga chugga chugga.
Dave Singer pointed out the
value of watching progress
bars in a meditative way.
Now, being legalistic,
first they have to tell me about
all the things that I must accept,
and you must accept them too.
And now, because they want to
scare the pants off me,
they put up a dialogue that says,
"You have installed software
that may not be available to
currently open movies." Now,
that would scare me,
because if I'm a user,
I want to go right on
through to my media.
I hate opening things up again.
But I'm going to say okay.
And notice my movie down here said, hey,
don't worry.
No need to close.
It's all handled.
I click on this and in a moment
I have my actual 3D content.
I'll show how to do the
gated movie in a moment,
but I want to show off a little bit
of Axel 3D because I don't know how
many of you folks have seen this stuff,
but it's way cool.
So I can spray paint
particles in my world.
I'm spray painting leaves,
very into leaves,
living in the woods myself.
That's cool.
I like that.
I can also change those
leaves on the fly.
I spray paint some
more in that rendering,
change some more.
I can even see them in wireframe.
I'm going to grab this.
I'm going to give it some wind.
So now those particles are being
affected by forces in the environment,
forces stronger than you or I,
and being blown away.
Now, imagine trying to create
these with sprites.
Even Matthew Peterson would
quail at such a prospect.
But wait, there's more.
I can also dynamically
change the color of things.
And it's only because I'm lazy that
you can only change the background.
We will, actually we've already posted,
no, no, that's false.
We will be posting in tomorrow,
not only this project,
but we will also be posting
another project which gives
even more degrees of freedom.
You can control more things.
And both the Axle project and
the Live Stage project will both
be available from Stage Door.
And Stage Door is a fantastic resource
on the Totally Hip website where you
can get tech notes and sample projects
and inspiration and mailing list,
archives.
So to show how nice that
Axle looks when it's larger,
notice that I've increased the size of
my movie and everything still looks good.
Now my bitmaps over here,
they don't look quite so good anymore
because I did that intentionally.
But my Axle content, being vector-based,
looks great.
I believe we have, yeah we do,
Justin is in the audience.
I would like you to give a
hand if you would to Justin.
Justin created the media handler
for this and the OS X version of the
authoring environment and it is hot,
way hot.
That's from Mind Avenue.
Okay, now I promised that I would show
how the Gate movie was done,
and true to my word,
I shall go into Live Stage Pro and
pull out once again the script.
Notice all of my tracks are named.
And so are my samples.
So when I open this up,
I've got one thing, and it is the cover,
which is this track right here.
All the rest of this is just
graphics to grab your attention.
And once I do that, I look at the script,
and on frame loaded, what do I do?
Well,
the first thing I do is I go out and...
That was Steve Israelson
getting back at me.
It's true, there are no comments,
but look how nicely
formatted that code is.
Anyways,
what it's doing here is it's saying,
"First, go out and check whether I've
got an importer for Axle." Now,
if you're wondering, "Well,
how do I know these names?"
Blood, Sweat, and Tears.
No, actually,
you can get this stuff out on Stage Door.
I'd like to say there's a really easy
way to find out this information,
but I can't.
Francesco's nodding his head,
there is an easy way.
Oh, QScript, really?
Stylin'. I can show something else.
The QScript reference, which I use a lot,
if I type in component,
If I would spell component correctly.
No silent R in there, thank you.
And we have load component.
Oh,
I probably have to go up to the index.
But if I come into here and
I search down deep enough,
hence it's not easy,
I would be able to find it right
in this handy-dandy window.
I use this a lot,
the ability to kind of look around.
Let's see whether I can find Axel.
No.
Let's see if I can find video.
Oh, so indeed they are, no?
Those are them?
Them or those?
Okay.
If you're really interested in how
to see this in the reference guide,
hit me after and I'll show you.
Don't actually hit me though.
So after I've determined whether
or not the component is there,
I'm checking to see whether it has a
version number that's greater than zero.
If it does,
then I flip the image that says, "Hey,
image is ready.
Axle loaded and ready.
Quick to continue." If,
on the other hand, I don't,
then what I do is I flip the
image to "Need to load." Indeed.
Need to load.
Component missing.
Please download.
Okay, then I do this down here.
Set idle delay to 60.
Now, what I'm doing there is I'm
saying to the environment,
hey, I'm going to want to check something
periodically to see whether
that download really happened.
So if I pop over to my idle handler,
I can see the counterpoint to this.
The idle handler, once a second,
goes out there and says, hey,
is that component there yet?
And once it is, then it turns around,
excuse me, if it's not there,
it invokes it directly and says,
load component,
go get the importer for Axle.
If you were to ask me
about these two numbers,
I would have no really good answer,
so please don't.
It embarrasses me.
Once I've done that,
that's going to actually pull up that
dialog that was doing the component
download and then away it goes.
Once I've actually found it,
then it's--oops,
I didn't actually show that part.
Once it's actually found it,
Then it is going to set
the image to loaded.
And I've got my image.
And away I would go
into the movie itself.
That way the user is able to use
third-party components without having to
reload anything into their environment.
So all of that, the component download
stuff and the actual stuff,
will all be on Stage Door tomorrow.
Zoomify.
Zoomify is another third-party
component that we support
directly in Live Stage Pro.
You're able in Zoomify
to have a VR environment,
a cubic environment, much like Qt VR.
But notice as I look around,
things are a little blurry.
Once I let go, things come into play.
Now, if this was all it would do, well,
I'd rather have Qt VR.
However, what about if I wanted
to zoom in to my controls
This media is being dynamically loaded
so that I get a higher resolution
as the user actually does it.
Muy cool.
[Transcript missing]
Including the ability to do some things
that you couldn't actually do in QTVR,
like roll the camera
right and roll it left.
This is for the roller
coaster fans in all of you.
And the reason it's able
to do that is there is an
actual OpenGL space behind it.
So they're really knowing that there is
a 3D space that they're working with.
Very cool plugin.
My hat's off to what they've
been able to do there.
So is that really hard stuff to
code inside of Live Stage Pro?
Positively not.
Those actions are very straightforward.
I have a sprite check that has
two kinds of sprites in there.
It has a monitor sprite,
which actually does all the updating
of where things are in terms of
pan and tilt and roll and whatnot.
And then I have an operator
that just pays attention to
which control was pressed,
and then it performs that action.
So here we can see the kind of actions
The kind of actions that we have.
It says, hey, if we're zooming in,
Zoomify Zoom in.
Pretty straightforward stuff.
So if you've got VR that you
want to get one of these kind
of progressive environments,
Zoomify is something to
really take a look at.
And Live Stage Pro is the environment for
integrating all of your QuickTime media.
Yeah, I know,
I miss my calling in marketing.
Okay.
Now, all those things were pretty cool,
and we liked it, and we had fun,
but you're saying, come on, Mike,
that's not truly advanced.
And I'll say, well, really?
Seems pretty advanced to me.
But there's more.
In some version of QuickTime,
which is eluding my brain at the moment,
five, thank you, QuickTime introduced the
ability to work with XML.
Well, actually, introduced the wired
ability to work with XML,
more correctly put.
And I got to tell you,
when I heard about this, well,
I started drooling and other things,
but I was pretty excited.
He's telling me,
"Get going." And what we're
able to do with that is actually
exchange to the server a lot of
information in a structured way.
So I've created a little skin here.
Over here you can see a QT list.
Notice it's structured data.
I've got a list.
I can drill down into this.
Over here I have the
representation of that list.
I'm going to put in a little
chat program that basically
got written over a weekend.
I'm going to put in a name.
I'm going to put in a little message.
And notice I put that
little apostrophe in there.
Now when I actually send that,
I'm pressed Enter.
You can see the XML that
was sent up to the server.
And right over here,
you'll notice that we're putting in
some... I guess it's not really a tag.
I forgot what they call these things.
What he said.
What was that again?
Entity.
Well, that's a nice generic word.
So I can put in entities that
represent some of the characters
that would confuse HTML,
excuse me, which would confuse HTTP GET,
which is the underlying mechanism
that is being used to pass
information back and forth.
I'm going to close that window up,
but there's more.
One of the things that everyone
who's ever worked with QuickTime in
a serious way in a browser
environment has wanted to do is,
let me pass data into the movie.
Please.
You can do that now.
First, let me show you what kind
of stuff I'm talking about.
Let's say I had a playlist
that I want-- playlist is kind
of a bad example in some ways,
but it's a good example for my purposes.
I wanted to pass in something
that looked like this.
From the browser,
maybe spit out from a database
dynamically into a web page,
and then passed into the movie.
Beginning in QuickTime 6,
you have the ability to pass these in.
So I've got a little text file out here,
which is an example that I wanted to use.
And I'm going to use a
freeware application done
in France called Peugeot.
Did I mention it's free?
Wonderful program.
And it allows me to build up
all of the information that
I would want to embed in a page.
So if I go over to QT list, I can say,
yes, I want to pass a QT list in there.
And I want to import a list.
There it is.
Now it's in there.
And now I can say show code.
I'm missing that grow.
And now I can see all of
my object and embed tag.
And you can see that I have a parameter
called Movie QT List that actually
allows me to pass structured data,
volumes of it if you want,
structured data into
your QuickTime movie.
Tremendously helpful.
And the last thing I wanted to show.
And then I'm done.
Is a piece that myself, Janie Fitzgerald,
and Robert West did.
And it uses XML and
QTless quite extensively.
It does a complete tour of the
Los Angeles Metro's red line.
You have a flash track down
in here that I'm able to zoom
in on and move things around.
Right now I'm in North Hollywood.
I'm going to drop that
audio track down a bit.
Over here I have a hotspot.
As I can see,
you can see up at the top right up here,
it indicates what that hotspot is.
That's a flash track actually.
I click on that.
If you listen closely,
you can hear new audio being
associated with this particular node.
Now there's, I think there's about 126
or 128 nodes in this piece.
Now if I had to represent
all that hand-coded,
I'd be very old, very frustrated,
and very bored.
Three things that I don't
want to be right now.
Instead what we did was we created
an external representation,
simple XML file, and we read that in.
Not only that, so all the audio,
all these images down here,
even where on the map I am,
is all represented in that XML file.
This also gives me the ability,
notice it says travel eastward.
If I click on this,
it reads in the other XML,
and now it's doing it in Spanish.
Notice it's going to adjust the map.
It loaded in new images down here
and adjusted that map from reading,
actually having already read and cached,
the XML representation of where
on the map I would be moving to.
This is a very cool piece.
I wish it was online and
I could show it around.
It's not quite yet.
As soon as we're able to get it online,
we certainly will.
But in case you're going to ask,
it's not.
Notice it moved over here.
I can also click on
the map and it will go,
instead of going from
platform to platform,
it goes onto the street level.
So another thing that's represented
in the XML is the street level
and what is the platform level.
Some of these stations have four nodes.
Some of them have seven nodes.
Some of them have nine nodes.
Some of them have 13 nodes.
So you can imagine I need a very
flexible way of representing data.
Structured data is well
represented in XML.
What a great match.
One last thing I would like to show
about this is I've kind of moved around.
I'm going to pop over to
Hollywood and Western.
I'm going to turn off my hot spots.
I'm actually doing a few
things behind the user's back.
First off,
I'm tracking everything you're doing.
Every control you're pressing,
every station you go to,
every node you're going to,
I'm tracking it all.
And I'm putting it all into a QT list.
And no, I'm not sending it to the CIA.
But I do have the ability to
upload that and analyze it,
and that is very helpful
information for designers.
But it also gives me the ability to say,
go back.
Uh-huh, it switched stations for
me and put me at that node.
Go back again.
Yep, now I went to that other station.
It's back to Universal City now,
and now it's going to go from node to
node all the way back to where I started.
So I'm going to make a definite
go back because I'm representing
it all as QTless internally.
Thank you.